All right, very nice.
So now we have to get workout and
the update workout methods
only in our data store.
Let's go all the way up to
the workout handler and
fix these up so that we can actually
call them, query them and test them out.
Let's go into the workout handler above.
So just a quick reminder we already have
handle create workout function working.
So now we're gonna work in the handle,
get workout by ID.
This can be fairly quick, not quick,
but simple integration here.
So at the bottom here, after we check
the last error for the workout ID,
what we can do is workout error
is going to be a workout handler,
the workout store and
the get workout by ID function.
We can pass in the workout ID.
>> Melkey: As per usual let's check the
error, so if error does not equal to nil,
we're gonna do a format, print line error.
>> Melkey: Bear with me,
it's not permanent,
we will fix this in a couple of minutes.
We'll do the HTTP error function,
pass in the response writer like so,
we can say failed to read the workout,
or fail to retrieve the workout.
And here we can do HTTP status not found.
>> Melkey: So we can actually just say
method to read the workout because they
fail to fetch the work.
Okay, I think it's a bit more
explicit to what's happening.
Okay, let's not forget the return
at the end there, okay?
And at this point, we are assuming we're
able to retrieve the workout correctly.
So then what we can do is W
header dot set content type.
>> Melkey: Application/json,
you can do w.WriteHeader over here.
I'm gonna give it the status
of HTTP.StatusOK, like so.
And right below we can do json.newencoder,
pass in the response writer, and
we're gonna encode the workout like so.
So let's go ahead and
just create the update method now as well,
so you can just at the bottom,
get some room for us here,
like so, create func wh for
our pointer to our workout handler.
I'm gonna call handle update
workout by ID like so,
this is gonna take our w
HTTP response writer and
the body of HTTP request or
the pointer, excuse me.
All right, and
here we have to parse that ID as well.
Since we already have that logic written
and this will be its own function,
we can do is simply just go up here and
let's go ahead and link this much code.
Instead of rewriting it from scratch,
go ahead and copy and
paste this from the get workout by
ID function, and just paste it in
the first body, in the first line for
the handle workout by ID, okay?
I'm gonna use this workout ID to
first fetch and get the workout, so
here we can do existing workout error.
Is going to be our workout handler,
the workout store, get workout by ID, and
he passed in the workout ID that we
just extracted from our query using chi.
Check the error, so
if our error does not equal to nil.
Down here, we can do HTTP error.
>> Melkey: W failed to
fetch workout HTTP status,
you do internal server error like so,
and then we can return.
And here we wanna check if
existing workout is nil,
because we can do a get request and
see if it's empty or not.
So here, if existing workout is in
fact nil after the error check,
you just do HTTP not found for
right now, WR, and then return.
Okay, so at this point,
we can assume we are able
to find existing workout.
Okay, now what we're gonna do
right now is create a new struct
which is gonna act as the request
from our client struck.
So you remember,
when we create a new workout,
we are basically decoding
that JSON into the struct.
We need to do the same for
update requests, okay?
But the thing is,
we don't wanna blindly trust our client.
I'm sure there's gonna be some clients
like client side validation, and
that's important.
But we can also do some server
side validation as well.
Is it overkill, I don't think so.
I think it's probably good to trust but
validate at the same time.
And so with that kind of thinking, we're
gonna create this struck not anonymous.
It's gonna live within
the scope of this function,
and you can make it
live outside the scope.
You can globally declare it
in the package, that's fine.
But here this is gonna act as
that preliminary location for
us to decode that JSON.
We can then validate that,
are the fields correct,
is it adhering to the password
length that we want, etc.
And then we can replace the values
in our actual existing workout with
those values from our client, and
then call the update workout method.
So I'll show you how that looks,
you can create a new variable
called update workout request.
This is gonna be struck, and this struck
is basically gonna have the same fields
our workout does,
with a slight difference.
We can do title, and this time,
instead of being a string,
this is gonna be a pointer
to a string like so.
Same JSON tags, title, all right, and
we'll follow up with the rest of them.
Description is going to be
also a pointer to a string.
We can put description like so.
Okay, we can have duration minutes.
>> Melkey: This is gonna be
a pointer to an int JSON,
duration underscore, minutes.
We're gonna have calories burned,
whoops,
>> Melkey: Like so,
this would be pointer to int.
>> Melkey: Okay, and
the last one are entries, right?
Because we know entries is a slice,
the native default type for
a slice is already nil.
So we can do store.WorkoutEntry, okay?
We can do our JSON tag as just entries
like so, with that now declared,
we can use the same JSON logic we
had earlier of the new decoder.
Let's grab it from our r.body, and
what we're gonna decode is in
the update workout request like so.
Let's check that error, so if our error
does not equal to nil, we can just do
HTTP error, pass in the response writer,
and then we can just simply write
the actual error message that we
are extracting from the decoder like so.
I'm gonna HTTP something
like status bad request.
>> Melkey: And make sure we return.
So now that we have this
update worker request, and
let's say we successfully decoded it,
the question is, why are these pointers?
And the reason for that is this allows us
to now check if those values are truly nil
or if they intend to be empty.
Let's say someone goes back and updates
the workout and they said, you know what?
I don't want a description on this field,
and they leave it empty, like an empty
string, which we found out is the default
or zero value of strings for go.
Do we wanna treat that as if
it's a non-existing value and
not update that worker entry, or do we
think that our user is actually trying to
update this form
a description to be empty?
So to do that successfully,
we can check with a nil pointer,
we can check if that value is
actually nil or not from our client.
Because if they don't send
anything from our client,
there's nothing gonna be there, and a nil
is not the same thing as an empty string.
So this update work request
variable that we have,
we could do something a little bit
repetitive, but I think it's worth it.
We can check if update
workout request.title, and
we can do this for
every field does not equal to nil, right?
What we can then do is existing
workout.title, reminder,
existing workout is the worker
we treat just a few lines above.
We can set this equal to
the deep reference value of
update worker request.title like so, cool.
So just a little bit more server side
validation on what we're getting and
expecting from our client calls.
>> Melkey: Okay, and we can do this for
all those fields, so you can go ahead and
copy and paste this for description,
duration, minutes, calories burned and
entries.
You can do update worker request set
of dot title we can do description.
If you are copying, make sure you
are careful with fixing the field names.
>> Student: Is there a way that
you could have looked on that?
>> Melkey: Sorry.
>> Student: Maybe create a loop and
just replace some key values
instead of having all of that.
>> Melkey: You can,
yeah, you for sure can.
I just wrote it like this again,
to be as explicit as possible.
I think I took more of an explicit
approach into this course,
I think throughout the course,
there's a ton of these optimization
things that people can probably use.
We're gonna just keep it as this
very unsettling if else over and
over again, but
you can just definitely do just
range over all those values to check
up their nail and replace them.
>> Melkey: So I got DurationMinutes,
next, I'm gonna do calories burned,
>> Melkey: All right.
>> Melkey: And the last one is entries.
>> Melkey: Yeah?
>> Student: Could you explain why we don't
need the pointer on the entries again?
>> Melkey: Yeah, absolutely,
so string and ints.
The zero value for
those is either an empty string or a zero,
right, with a slice, the zero or
default value is nil.
So the reason we're even using
pointers on relative line 29 up for
title description duration is because
the zero value for a pointer is nil.
And so that gives us that ability to
check does this actually exist or
does it not exist?
Which goes back to the example like
maybe someone actually wants to send
zero, right?
If they do, okay, cool, we can process
that, but if we don't have a way to fully
check the integrity of the request that we
may accidentally take a zero value by go
and replace it to be something
that it really shouldn't be.
So this nil check gives us more of that,
not authenticity, but
more of that confidence to make sure
that we are processing the right
request from our caller.
Here we can just do it error, we can
do workout handler is workout store.
We can click update workout,
you can pass in that new,
fairly new, but
we can say improved existing workout.
You can check if our error
does not equal to nil.
We can just print the error for
ourselves but we can just do format
print align and say update workout
error to be more explicit in
case some people do get errors
here who are trying this out.
We can do error we do W, we can also
say failed to update the workout,
we can put HTTP internal server error.
We can return, and the last little
bit is running back to our client.
So w header, we can set content dash type
application slash JSON like so.
We can do write our header, so w.write.
>> Melkey: There you go, right?
Header we can do HTP status okay.
And then we can just say JSON.new encoder,
passed in our response writer,
and then we can encode
the existing workout like so.
So we just wrapped up writing
our update handler, and for
that, we just created
the functions in our data store for
creating, reading and
updating the workouts.
So now we're gonna test these out.
There's just one thing we have to do,
which is to route one of the new functions
that update handler into our routes.
So we'll go here, so
right underneath the workouts,
we can do an r.Put, okay.
And here we'll put passed
in slash workouts, and
then the slug,
which is just the curly brackets, ID.
And here it will be the function names,
will be app.workout handler,
and then handle, update workout by ID.
Again, we're not calling these functions
cuz functions are passed as first class
citizens in Go.
So we could just pass them like so.
So with all that,
we can finally validate if those functions
we created all work accordingly.
So go to your running Go server, you can
go ahead and nuke it and run it back up.
Awesome, if you have any errors,
they'll show up right now.
Any compiler errors or, not compilers,
but any errors from a connected database,
things like that,
those will show up right now.
All right, so I'm just gonna make sure
I have my I'm talking to pose running.
I have psql still running, so
that's allows me to check
what's going on my database.
And I have this last terminal
which I can use to curl.
And again, you can use whatever you want,
but if you are following along,
you can go into that post
underscore notes section here, and
the next sub section should be 1.6.
Now this 1.6 request body, it's going to
make the put function call to our address,
HTTP local host 8082, workouts to the one
workout we have in our database right now.
And here we're gonna be updating it,
so you can see we have tile,
description, duration,
calories, burn entries.
And one thing to note,
we're actually adding a third entry here,
the plank, right?
So we had previous squats, and I think it
was push ups, now we're modifying this to
dead lifts, pull ups and
adding a third and called plank.
And if you wanna validate this,
we can go again into select all from
workout underscore entries in psql and
see that the two entries we have for
our workout are just squats and bench.
So ideally, once we call this function,
we should see a bunch of
this stuff be updated.
If not, we're in trouble with the debug.
So go ahead and copy all this down and
in your empty terminal, or again,
whatever UI you wanna run.
Paste it, you click Enter,
you should now see this
very very appealing looking
JSON square blob thing.